#A# Websockets, polling, SSE


1) normally theres a client server architecture which works on request resonse system ie HTTP
the client sends a request to the server, and server sends back a response and the req-res cycle completes .

2) but the issue here is : 

suppose we have a stock market webapp (server), now client A and B requests the stock price of a stock C , and server sends the response to both.
but now if client A sells or buys stock C , then the stock price data at server changes, SO now client B has stale data.
but the server cant send client B the updated data cuz once req-res cycle finishes , server cant send anything to client unless client requests again.

so here the typical req--res architecture fails when the client needs real time data from server.

3) so normally the flow is , your browser initiates a TCP connection with http server, sends a GET/POST HTTP request and server sends response
and the connection closes .

4) But what if u want a persistent connection ? wherein the client can send any no. of request , at any time, and the browser can also send
any data at any time to the client 

5) when you go to binance , you can see the prices changing continously in real time . but obviosuly the binance doesnt send http req to binance 
server and get response back, instead it has a websocket connection.

6) VERY IMP:   THE CLIENT ALWAYS HAS TO SEND THE FIRST HTTP REQUEST TO SERVER IN ORDER TO INITIATE Websockets connection

7) go to binance website live prices , click INSPECT, then on NETWORK, then search for stream and go to header, you'll see :
wss://stream.binance.com/stream ---> wss stands for websocket secure , and also the binance server is at this endpoint: stream.binance.com/stream 

8) Websockets vs WebRTC : websockets use TCP while webrtc uses UDP, but both are used for same purpose ie realtime data
example :

in games like pubg, you need realtime data from server (like oppenents location, firearm inventory etc) since we know UDP is unreliable 
it cant guarantee all the changes in data being sent by server to client, some data can miss also, which is totally fine in games (if exact
location of opponent at each step is not being sent to us its fine) therefore here we use webrtc.

but in chat application, suppose client A and B are chatting, client A sends msg to server, and server has to send it to client B in realtime
without any mistakes ie reliably, therefore websocket (tcp) is used here .

9) websockets is a communication protocol which provides bidirectional communication whereas SSE is unidirection ie only server can send.

10) its very difficult to horizontally scale servers for websocket connections

11) Polling : the client asks at short intervals to the server if the server has anything new, if yes the server sends the data, if no
then server replies no it doesnt have anything .

12) Okay so one imp concept here is, when you are polling, your request doesnt go to the same server again n again, the load balancer 
directs it to different servers in order to balance the load . so in polling you are not bombarding the same server with many requests 

13) long polling: server holds the client request for short interval and then sends response, then again immediately client requests and same again..
but in short polling, client sends req, gets instant response , waits x sec, then sends req , recieves response , again waits x sec 

#B# Webhooks :

1) An HTTP callback triggered by an event
Meaning:
Event happens
One server sends an HTTP request
Another server receives it and reacts
Usually using:
POST request
JSON payload

2) Example Flow (Stripe Payment)
Suppose you build a SaaS app and use Stripe for payments.
Without Webhooks
Your backend keeps asking Stripe:
Did payment happen?
Did payment happen?
Did payment happen?
This is called polling and wastes resources.


With Webhooks
Flow becomes:
User pays →
Stripe detects successful payment →
Stripe sends POST request to your server →
Your server updates subscription automatically
Instant and efficient.
Visual Architecture
User Action
    ↓
Service detects event
    ↓
Webhook triggered
    ↓
HTTP POST request sent
    ↓
Your server endpoint receives data
    ↓
Your backend processes it
What Actually Gets Sent?
Example webhook payload:
{
  "event": "payment.success",
  "user": "harshal@example.com",
  "amount": 999
}
Your backend receives this JSON.



3) IMP : webhook vs API -->

API is a way to communicate, suppose frontend wants some data from backend, we create API endpoints, the frontend requests and hits
 api url and retrieves data from backend , therefore this is req-res design

whereas in webhook, a response is automatically sent from one system to another server when event occurs 


#C# Crypto domain knowledge:

1) BTC, ETH, SOL are digital cryptocurrencies

2)BTCUSDT means BTC priced in USDT
  1 Bitcoin costs $81,456.

3) okay so in stock market, there are buyers and sellers. At any point of time, the orderbook is :

buyers placing bids , bid is nothing but an order amt they want to buy at
sellers placing asks, ask is amt the seller wants to sell their stock at 

The best ask = lowest price someone will sell at
The best bid = highest price someone will buy at
The gap between them is the spread

4) On Groww, when you click "Buy at Market Price" — you're not placing a bid, instead you're ust accepting whatever the current best ask is.

5) So what exactly is our service doing?
Groww has a team of engineers whose job is to receive this exact feed from NSE and show it to you. Our ingestion service is doing the 
same thing — except instead of showing it in a nice UI, we're piping it into an engineering pipeline (Kafka → Postgres → GraphQL etc.)

6) Depth : how many levels of price point are in the order book

example : order book with price 3 

ASK side:
$81,460.00 → 2.5 BTC   ← could be 10 people,all selling 2.5 btc at $81,460 (ie total order value = 2.5 * $81,460)
$81,458.00 → 1.2 BTC   ← could be 3 people all selling at $81,458
$81,456.78 → 0.8 BTC   ← could be 1 person selling at $81,456.78

────────── spread ──────────

$81,456.77 → 3.0 BTC   ← could be 50 people all bidding at $81,456.77
$81,455.00 → 5.1 BTC
$81,452.00 → 8.0 BTC


7) In our code we use @bookTicker which is even lighter than depth 1 — it just gives you the best bid and ask prices, no quantity breakdown.
now what is quantity?

8) heres the actual entire flow :

ASK (sellers, listed low to high):
$81,456.78 → 0.8 BTC   ← cheapest seller right now (best ask)
$81,458.00 → 1.2 BTC
$81,460.00 → 2.5 BTC   ← more expensive sellers

The person at $81,460 is saying: "I won't sell my BTC for less than $81,460."
Their order just hasn't been matched yet because there's a cheaper seller ahead of them
If that 0.8 BTC at $81,456.78 gets bought up, then the $81,458 seller becomes the new best ask. 
If that also gets bought, then $81,460 becomes the best ask — and that's when the "price" moves up on your app